Sto sonarqube ssl updates doc 3594 (#3051)
harness/developer-hub: docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/sonarqube-sonar-scanner-reference.md

helpdocs_is_published: true
---

>  You can run automated [SonarQube SonarScanner](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/) scan to analyze your code repos and ensure that they are secure, reliable, readable, and modular, among other key attributes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 You can run an automated [SonarQube SonarScanner](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/) scan to analyze your code repos and ensure that they are secure, reliable, readable, and modular, among other key attributes. 
```

helpdocs_is_published: true
---

 You can run automated [SonarQube SonarScanner](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/) scan to analyze your code repos and ensure that they are secure, reliable, readable, and modular, among other key attributes. 
 
 You can set up SonarQube scans using a [SonarQube step](#sonarqube-step-configuration) or a [Security step (_legacy workflow_)](#security-step-configuration-legacy).

:::info important notes
* STO supports repository scanning only for SonarScanner.
* STO supports all languages supported by SonarScanner.

> * Before you scan your repo, make sure that you perform any prerequisites for the language used in your repo. If you are scanning a Java repo with more than one Java file, for example, you must compile `.class` files before you run the scan.  

Author: Commenting out this sentence, created Jira to confirm/update this: https://harness.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-3640

<!-- ============================================================================= -->
<a name="auth-domain"></a>

#### Domain 

> The URL of the SonarQube server. Required for Orchestration and Extraction scans. Use the value of the [`sonar.host.url`](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube/latest/analyzing-source-code/analysis-parameters/#mandatory-parameters) parameter in SonarQube.

Reviewer 2: Instead of `Use the value` I'd say something like  `The value corresponds to the sonar.host.url Sonarqube setting`. They might not have scanner in place to understand that reference otherwise.

Author: @r0610205 I've updated this to read: The URL of the SonarQube server. Required for Orchestration and Extraction scans. This value corresponds to the [`sonar.host.url`](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube/latest/analyzing-source-code/analysis-parameters/#mandatory-parameters) setting in SonarQube.

* [Policy Enforcement](/docs/platform/Governance/Policy-as-code/harness-governance-overview)

## Security step configuration (_legacy_)

You can add a Security step to a Security Tests or CI Build stage and then configure it as described below. 

### Docker-in-Docker requirements

```mdx-code-block
import StoDinDRequirements from '/docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/shared/dind-bg-step.md';
```

<StoDinDRequirements />

### Scan types

STO supports the following scan types for SonarQube:

> * `orchestratedScan`  — A Security step in the pipeline runs the scan and ingests the results. This is the easiest to set up and supports scans with default or predefined settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `orchestratedScan`  — A Security step in the pipeline runs the scan and ingests the results. This is the easiest method to set up and support scans with default or predefined settings.
```

* `dataLoad`  — The pipeline downloads scan results using the [SonarScanner API](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/extend/web-api/).
* `ingestionOnly` — Run the scan in a Run step, or outside the pipeline, and then ingest the results. This is useful for advanced workflows that address specific security needs. See [Ingest scan results into an STO pipeline](../use-sto/orchestrate-and-ingest/ingest-scan-results-into-an-sto-pipeline.md). 

### Target and variant

```mdx-code-block
import StoLegacyTargetAndVariant  from './shared/legacy/_sto-ref-legacy-target-and-variant.md';
```

<StoLegacyTargetAndVariant />

### SonarQube SonarScanner settings

* `product_name` = `sonarqube`
* `scan_type` = `repository`
* `product_config_name` = `default` — Runs a SonarQube scan with default settings.
* `policy_type` — Enter one of the following:

> 	+ `orchestratedScan`  — A Security step in the pipeline runs the scan and ingests the results. This is the easiest to set up and supports scans with default or predefined settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	+ `orchestratedScan`  — A Security step in the pipeline runs the scan and ingests the results. This is the easiest method to set up and support scans with default or predefined settings.
```
